# gender-recognition-by-voice
Decision tree, logistic regression and nueral network in R and python

Today, people’s voices have already become another identity, just like our fingerprints or our DNA. As machine learning algorithms develop, voice recognition systems have stepped into our lives, from Siri to bank call centers, and even police stations. With “This call may be monitored” every time we talk with a bank on the phone, our banks have been quietly recording our voices and storing our biometric data for future fraud detection. Alexa, Amazon’s Artificial Intelligence assistant, became incredible trendy in 2016 because of voice recognition and speech recognition techniques. It is safe to conclude that voice recognition has become another popular topic in Machine Learning. The purpose of this project is to study voice recognition algorithms by applying various machine learning models. 

This dataset includes 3,168 recorded voice samples, collected from male and female speakers, and 21 variables. The variables include but are not limited to mean frequency, standard deviation of frequency, median frequency, quantiles, skewness, kurtosis, spectral entropy, spectral flatness and so on. Voice samples were collected from The Harvard-Haskins Database of Regularly-Time Speech, Telecommunications & Signal Processing Laboratory Speech Database at McGill University, VoxForge Speech Corpus and Festvox CMU_ARCTIC Speech Database at Carnegie Mellon University. Each piece of voice was originally saved as a .wav file and pre-processed by acoustic analysis in R using the seewave and tuneR packages. The results from pre-processing were saved into a .csv file, which is available from primaryobjects.com and kaggle.com. The team downloaded the .csv file from kaggle.com (https://www.kaggle.com/primaryobjects/voicegender/data).

This dataset was chosen was not only because it has already been cleaned and pre-processed, but also because it is well balanced. It contains 50% male voices and 50% female voices. This dataset also come with some deficiencies: there isn’t any falsetto in the dataset so that we could study whether our algorithm be able to recognize falsettos and recognize their genders. 
